<h1>Endless</h1>


Java Roguelike Game in Prototype. For more information, read the full documentation found in the doc folder.

<h3> Brief Summary: </h3>

<p>Endless is a procedurally generated dungeon crawler inspired by Endmund McMillen/Nicalis' 2014 Game <em>The Binding of Isaac: Rebirth,</em> borrowing many ideas from the game, like the room/floor generation, usable/passive items, and the control scheme. It also took inspiration from Activision/Blizzard's <em>Overwatch</em> in regards to how the abilities work, where players have Abilities 1 and 2, which are time-cooldown based, then a much more powerful Ultimate Ability that requires combat to generate. </p>

<p>The player will pick their character, then the character's "subclass," (which defines the abilities). They will then be loaded into a prodecurally generated, room-based dungeon. In each room, there will be enemies who attempt to attack the player, stealing their health. Upon hitting zero health, the player will die, causing the "run" to end. A portion of player health comes back after defeating all enemies in a room. Upon entering a room with enemies, the doors will close behind the player, and can only open once all enemies are defeated. There are two special rooms. One will be marked orange on the map of the player. This is the Challenge Room. Within the Challenge Room, two buttons, red and green sit in the room. Upon pressing either, the doors will close and a very strong enemy will attempt to kill the player. Upon its defeat, an item will drop. The strength of the item depends on which button was pressed (better items come from red). The other special room is the Boss Room. Within the Boss Room lies a very powerful enemy that must be defeated in order to progress to the next floor. </p>

<p> Gameplay/combat is relatively simple. Players fire in the direction they are facing. Turning will shoot automatically. Players have a limited magazine, but unlimited reserve ammunition. Players can reload prematurely by pressing 'R' at no cost. Players begin with a primary weapon, which is a versatile, general use case weapon. This includes a revolver, shurikens, and a handheld cannon. Alternatively, by pressing 'F,' the player will swap to their secondary weapon. Secondary weapons are incredibly powerful in the right situations, but are far more niche. The existing weapons are a sniper rifle, a sword, and a shotgun. 
Players also have abilities. In general, but not always, Ability 1 (E) will be an offensive ability, who's primary use is to cause damage in some fashion. Alternatively, Ability 2 (LShift) is in general, a movement/defensive/utility ability. These exist to keep the player safe (by moving out of a bad situation or protecting them from it) or regenerating health. Finally, the Ultimate Ability (Q) is an extremely powerful ability that can only be generated by damaging and defeating enemies. It will not generate passively. </p>

<p>As mentioned previously, Challenge Rooms will provide the player with Items. Items are in one of two forms, Passive or Weapon. Passive items can range from a simple stat change, like a damage increase, to a more complex mechanic, like causing the last bullet in a player's magazine to deal vastly higher damage and regenerate back at the cost of the user's health. Alternatively, Weapon Items will replace the player's currently held weapon. These can be anything from a minigun that ramps up fire rate as it's held, to a laser cannon that pierces through everything. Items are made to be a very powerful addition to the player's current state, some more that others. </p>

<h3> Requirements (for editing/viewing all files): </h3>
<ul>
  <li>Java 8 or higher</li>
  <li>GIMP Image Manipulation Software</li>
  <li>Word Processing Software</li>
  <li>Microsoft Excel or similar software</li>
</ul>

<h3> Contributing </h3>

<p> Unfortunately, this prototype of the game is closed, and no more changes are being made. The creator (jlars789) is currently working on a full version using the Java Library/Game Engine, LibGDX </p>

<h3> How's it Work? </h3>

<p> This prototype was made completely from scratch, using little-to-no non-native libraries. This was done as both a challenge and practice. It uses Java AWT in a Java Swing JPanel for all GFX. User controls are also handled by Java AWT. The game attempts to run at 60 FPS, but this is often not 100% precise. Entity movements are compensated in the following frame in the case of lag, however, all timers are frame-based, meaning in laggy situations, player abilities will take additional time to charge. In hindsight, using actual time, independent of the performance, would have been a better option. Unfortunately, the window cannot scale past the intially set size. </p>

This project is in the form of a Java Project, and can be simply downloaded and saved as a Java Project.
